---
layout: post
title: Hack Day 
---

My first hack-a-thon... I have got to write a blog post on it. The hack-days were on the 17th and 18th May 2018. I went into the office, early as usual, started on my usual work and then thought for sometime on how the day was going to turn out, cause I had no idea what I wanted to do. I wanted to collaborate with different people, get to know MYOB software more and program to my heart's content without having to think how the finished product looked like or whether I could finish the product in just two days. And I realized that was the whole purpose of hack days, to make people think, discover problems, make a start to solving those problems, all the while, enjoying with no stress. And that was also the theme of this hack-day, work on problems you encounter on a daily-basis. However, it should be related to MYOB. 

But this constraint, narrowed what I could do on those two days. You see, I had no experience working with MYOB software and I haven't been there long enough to notice problems, which meant, joining someone who had an idea. And if I can't find something that is of interest to me, then I would self-study, do some work on my own, which I was not keen to. For me, that somehow defeated the purpose of hack-days.

So, I decided to walk all over the office to know what people are doing. I didn't have to walk much further, when I found something interesting. This team was aiming to make the life of MYOB employees easier. According to them, for a software company, a process for employees to register the times they were on on-call manually, was not ideal. They wanted to automate that process. Well, I got the gist of what they were getting at, but I didn't even know where to start. Slowly, the team started to grow larger. More people, more minds, great ideas! I thought that I would not have a chance to code, no chance to learn. But I did.

I learned about the process from how they identified the problem, split it into parts, discovered the things to keep in mind... Unfortunately, I couldn't give much input as I was still trying to understand. Then came the decision on who will work on what. Now, I have experience doing back-end and have not touched front-end at all. I thought, maybe this could teach me front-end, but decided against this as I though it would be a liability for the people in the team to stop doing work and explain to me how things worked. So, I worked on the back-end. I paired with a Senior Developer on the back-end and learned a lot from him. I asked questions and thankfully, he took the time to explain, but I was amazed I was not lost, that I knew what was going on. The roadmap for the acceleration was working!

Lunch was free on the first day and free donuts on the second! I couldn't ask for anything else. Second day, was the pitch and marketplace, where we showcased our product. We had a really cool team name "ORCA", and a really cool team logo. 

Great two-days, loved it, can't wait for the next this year!!!
